Actual analysis of our data is typically performed by aggregate functions.
Examples of aggregate functions and stream processors are max,
min, sum, histograms, sets, and lists.
An aggregation involves taking two or more distinct events,
including one or more new events based on a calculation of some kind.
So here we have the number 10,
put it into our sum processor,
7 plus 10 becomes 17,
3 plus 17 will become 20,
and then we would output that event.
In this example we're using a sum aggregate to add the value of
events as they pass through our stream processing application.
Streaming aggregates almost always involve a specific time frame.
Unlike batch processing where we can calculate the maximum column,
calculating a max in a stream processing application is more
complex because the stream itself is unbounded by time.
Let's put this more concretely.
Say I want a sum of all sales for the India region,.
With a SQL database,
I can simply sum over all the data in my purchases table.
The SQL database contains a time bounded set of
data with the most up to date representations of the purchase data.
With the purchase of stream,
it's possible that unless the topic is compacted,
much of our historical data has been expired off the topic already.
That's okay though, you can still see a sum of sales
in any region in a stream processing application,
it would just need to be bound by a particular time window.
The same concept applies across all aggregate functions.
Now, it's worth noting that if you have a compacted topic,
you will have an up-to-date view of all the data.
So it's important to understand what kind of topic you're working with.
If you're working with the compacted topic,
you can actually run aggregate functions across
all the data available for all time for a given topic,
but most comfort topics for
stream processing applications will be expired and not compacted.